SmoothWater for Minecraft 1.4.5:

This is a core mod that tweaks the way water flows in Minecraft to prevent
two types of irritating ocean currents:

1. Surface eddies generated by (for example) using a bucket on the water
   surface.
2. Undertow created by mining the ocean floar.


The basic cause of both problems is related to the two kinds of water in
Minecraft (see note), source blocks and water flow.  Source blocks are the
solid water that you can pick up with a bucket, water flow is the surrounding
tiles that flow out from source blocks.

Specifically, both problems are the direct result of a missing source block.
A simple surface eddy is four source blocks around a block of water flow,
creating a + of currents towards the center block.  A simple undertow is a
block of water flow underneath a column of source blocks, creating an invisible
but hard-to-resist downward current.

SmoothWater fixes these by making two changes to the algorithm Minecraft uses
to generate new source blocks:

1. Source blocks can form on other soruce blocks, not just solid ground.
   (There's actually a fix for this bug in Minecraft, but the fix is bugged.)
2. Source blocks can form in a hole dug in the floor of a water pool, provided
   that there's:
      * Adequate support beneath (a solid block or another water source),
      * A source block above, and
      * Two more source blocks adjacent to the block above.
   (Yes, this is complicated.  Don't worry about it; it's just being careful
    to change water flow as little as possible while still solving the
    undertow problem.)


Note: The source/flow split is not the reason that water has two block IDs.
      That's a programming trick to make updating water flow more efficient.
      It's data value 0 that identifes a source block, so 8:0 and 9:0 are both
      water source blocks, and any other data value on either 8 or 9 is water
      flow.



INSTALLING:

Do you have Forge installed?

Yes: Place the SmoothWater .zip file in your coremods/ folder.

No: Copy the .class file from SmoothWater's .zip file into your minecraft.jar
    (or minecraft_server.jar) and delete the META-INF directory.
    (META-INF contains Mojang's digital signature on Minecraft's classes, so it
     causes an error if you change any class and leave META-INF alone.)



RUNNING:

Nothing special required.

Note that SmoothWater fixes eddies and undertows by changing Minecraft's water
spread algorithm.  This means that they will not be instantly fixed in old
worlds (though, in most cases, changing any adjacent block will fix them), nor
will the fixes go away if you load the world into vanilla Minecraft later.
